SubmissionNumber#=%=#27
FinalPaperTitle#=%=#Issue Framing as a Generalizable Phenomenon
ShortPaperTitle#=%=#Issue Framing as a Generalizable Phenomenon
NumberOfPages#=%=#1
CopyrightSigned#=%=#
JobTitle#==#
Organization#==#
Abstract#==#Framing---portraying an issue from one perspective to the necessary exclusion
of alternative perspectives---is a central concept in political communication.
It is also a powerful political tool, as evidenced through experiments and
single-issue studies beyond the lab. Yet compared to its significance, we know
very little about framing as a generalizable phenomenon. Do framing dynamics,
such as the evolution of one frame into another, play out the same way for all
issues? Under what conditions does framing influence public opinion and policy?
Understanding the general patterns of framing dynamics and effects is thus
hugely important. It is also a serious challenge, thanks to the volume of text
data, the dynamic nature of language, and variance in applicable frames across
issues (e.g., the `innocence' frame of the death penalty debate is irrelevant
for discussing smoking bans). To address this challenge, I describe a
collaborative project with Justin Gross, Philip Resnik, and Noah Smith. We
advance a unified policy frames codebook, in which issue-specific frames (e.g.,
innocence) are nested within high-level categories of frames (e.g., fairness)
that cross cut issues. Through manual annotation bolstered by supervised
learning, we can track the relative use of different frame cues within a given
issue over time and in an apples-to-apples way across issues. Preliminary
findings suggest our work may help unlock the black box of framing, pointing to
generalizable conditions under which we should expect to see different types of
framing dynamics and framing effects.
Author{1}{Firstname}#=%=#Amber
Author{1}{Lastname}#=%=#Boydstun
Author{1}{Email}#=%=#aboydstun@ucdavis.edu
Author{1}{Affiliation}#=%=#University of California at Davis

==========