SubmissionNumber#=%=#28
FinalPaperTitle#=%=#Location and Language Use in Social Media
ShortPaperTitle#=%=#Location and Language Use in Social Media
NumberOfPages#=%=#1
CopyrightSigned#=%=#
JobTitle#==#
Organization#==#
Abstract#==#We now know that social interactions are critical in many knowledge and
information processes. In this talk, I plan to illustrate a model-driven
approach to understanding social behavior around user location and different
languages in social media.  

First, in 2010, we performed the first in-depth study of user location field in
Twitter user profiles. We found that 34\% of users did not provide real
location information, frequently incorporating fake locations or sarcastic
comments that can fool traditional geographic information tools. We then
performed a simple machine learning experiment to determine whether we can
identify a user’s location by only looking at contents of a user's tweets. We
found that a user’s country and state can in fact be determined easily with
decent accuracy, indicating that users implicitly reveal location information,
with or without realizing it.

Second, despite the widespread adoption of Twitter in different locales, little
research has investigated the differences among users of different languages.
In prior research, the natural tendency has been to assume that the behaviors
of English users generalize to other language users. We studied 62 million
tweets collected over a four-week period. We discovered cross-language
differences in adoption of features such as URLs, hashtags, mentions, replies,
and retweets. We also found interesting patterns of how multi-lingual Twitter
users broker information across these language boundaries. We discuss our
work’s implications for research on large-scale social systems and design of
cross-cultural communication tools.
Author{1}{Firstname}#=%=#Ed
Author{1}{Lastname}#=%=#Chi
Author{1}{Email}#=%=#edchi@google.com
Author{1}{Affiliation}#=%=#Google

==========